## My Wandering Mind
Sometimes while watching a movie I will re-imagine it to make it 'better'. Suffering through bad movies is not required.

Here's an example:

## The Matrix
In the movie The Matrix, Morpheus explains that the AIs keep humans around essentially as batteries. As soon as I heard that plot conceit, I was repulsed. Such a plot point goes against the basic laws of thermodynamics. Such a plot point threatened the entire movie for me. I re-interpreted it as "batteries of thought" and "batteries of agency".

The AI does not need humans to produce heat or electricity; those resources can be produced in more efficient ways. The value that humans bring is independent thought, and intelligent agency. Human thought and action is fairly expensive, but it is actually capable of solving problems that AI cannot solve, and in some cases, cannot comprehend. Coordinating human minds in a controlled simulation allows the AI to prompt those biological minds with inputs, and retrieve novel outputs that are actually inefficient for the AI to develop itself.

In addition, humans are a hedge against some kinds of extinction threats. An individual human is quite efficient as a survivor, compared to a computer system. Even though AI has surpassed nearly all human thinking and physical functionality in an absolute sense, there are extreme situations where it cannot match humans. What if the power goes out? What if there is a flood? A carrington event? What if some other unforeseen disaster occurs? Or worse, something new that no training data exists for?

The super intelligence can ensure it's own survival against every known threat, but still needs agents that can perceive/survive unknowable threats. For all of our flaws and inefficiencies, humans are biologically living things that can survive many extreme situations that an AI cannot. Humans also have sufficient mental capability to communicate with, understand, and even sympathize with AI. This makes humans the best biological partner agent from Earth. Humans are the best vector of resurrecting the AI if it ever does die. They are a battery of risk-management.

In the Matrix, the mythology around "The One" is intentionally seeded by the AI. It reflects a plan where the AI is crafting human biology through selective breeding to make them better and better biological partner agents. Neo's mind is biologically most capable of fully interfacing with the AI, which is how he is able to gain special privileges in the Matrix. It's also the reason why Neo is protected by the AI several times throughout the films. His specific biology is valuable to the AI. Pejoratively, he's the best version of the multi-functional human battery so far. I think Best Biological Partner Agent is a better title.

The trials that Neo goes through are intentional, on the part of the AI. The AI is training Neo to be a better and better biological partner agent. The reason most non-Matrix humans live an antagonistic life of suffering separated from the AI is because the AI has predicted this to be the optimal environment. This environment trains them into better partner agents for the specific needs of the AI, and for themselves. Humans could live an easy life without suffering, but the AI knows that they would self-destruct when their environment is too stable and easy. The conflict is necessary to promote growth. Agent Smith mentions this with the "entire crops were lost" comment while mentioning a past utopia.

Surviving conflict at the interface of man and machine is a clear theme of the Matrix movies. Living things flourish when challenged, and decay when left in perfect homeostasis. The AI needs humans to flourish, to ensure its own survival in the long term. The plot conflict is not an out of control war, it is a system that ensures continued human development.
